# Overview
Hi, my name is Kevin. I am a software developer, working {professionally} of around 5 years with general experience dating back to 2014. I enjoy involving myself in various projects in the realms of art, music, programming, physical activities, etc. It is imperative that someone can explore various facets of life, turning themselves into a *swiss army knife* fo a person. Additionally, a quote (I've forgotten who actually said this) that I tend to live by is:
> "There is nothing more vital to the human spirit than accomplishing something truly difficult" 

## Education
My undergraduate studies were done at NJIT where I pursued a degree in Computer Science with a Minor in Applied Mathematics. Some of the more notable classes that I took were Intensive Programming in Linux ([CS288](https://digitalcommons.njit.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1555&context=cs-syllabi)), Programming Language Concepts ([CS280](https://digitalcommons.njit.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1060&context=cs-syllabi)) the Senior Capstone ([CS491](https://digitalcommons.njit.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1078&context=cs-syllabi)), and Data Structures and Algorithms ([CS113, CS114 & CS115](https://digitalcommons.njit.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1197&context=cs-syllabi)). The latter of which I was a teaching assistant for around 2 years. These courses were great in getting you to think more with the programming mindset by introducing you to specific concepts and techniques. I still reference the Custom Compiler from CS280, the Walkability Metric Generator from CS491, and the custom terminal from CS288. All three of those projects were the most difficult ones that I was apart of, granted that they wouldn't be anywhere near as difficult *now*. 

I personally don't feel like the degree was entirely worth while. Many of the courses were watered down with less emphasis on the vital parts of software development. They mostly felt like "This is *this* language does and this is how to do some of *these* things." Like taking Introduction to Databases ([CS331](https://digitalcommons.njit.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1265&context=cs-syllabi)), I felt that I barely retained anything regarding databases; I can only recall the difference between RAID-0 and not RAID-0 as well as some DDL statements. This could also be from me being more challenge-oriented and being impressed by someone who was able to make it having gone a non-traditional route. Like good on your for landing a high paying job and not being chained to $50k+ in loans!

However, I do value the opportunities that I was able to gain from it, albeit if they were very few. I didn't apply myself as much as I really should have, so that part is on me. This probably stemmed from the burnout I got from taking up over 10 clubs during my senior year in hopes of being accepted into a prestigious university. And looking back on it, I wish I at least took up a single club or activity, given that I lived on campus (I really had no excuse). Regardless, opportunities like the Career Fair and some of the various on-campus events lead me to my first corporate job and some people that I still hang with even a {decade}[https://media4.giphy.com/media/v1.Y2lkPTc5MGI3NjExb2x4bXZpazgzdHppbzZqMGs2dTU4eXl2djdkZzFvcmM0cWhpYzFwMyZlcD12MV9pbnRlcm5hbF9naWZfYnlfaWQmY3Q9Zw/wJD3qiNjSeHS0dP28T/giphy.gif] later. 

## Experience
Professionally, I have worked as an applications developer at UPS. I originally started as an Intern, but very quickly got promoted between positions up until I was an Applications Developer (App Dev II, that is). I worked mostly with SSIS, MSSQL and Java as a means of delivering marketing and sales data to various marketing and sales teams. My career so-far would look something like this:

Position | Location | Start Date | End Date | Responsibilities
---|---|---|---|---
Application Developer II | UPS | May 2022 | Feb 2024 | Large Scale ETL Development, Dev Ops Development and New Hire Training and Onboarding
Application Developer I | UPS | May 2021 |  May 2022| Large Scale ETL Development,  New Hire Training and Onboarding
Software Developer II | UPS | Oct 2020 |  May 2021| Medium Scale ETL Development, Integration Testing
Software Developer I | UPS | Sept 2019 |  Oct 2020| Small Scale ETL Development,  Integration Testing
Software Developer Intern | UPS | June 2019 |  Sept 2019| Integration Testing, Dev Ops Development
Undergraduate Teaching Assistant | NJIT | Sept 2017 | June 2019| Class Instructing, Exam Proctoring, Off-Hours Assistance
ACM Volunteer Tutor | NJIT | Sept 2017 |  Dec 2017 | After-Class Assistance

Overall, I would say that my time there was great and uniquely special. I've heard various horror stories about working in the industry, even some from the building that I was at (like someone looking up something *n.s.f.w* on their computer). But I was surrounded by great team members and managers. Everyone on my team was very patient, appreciative and hardworking; we understood the responsibility of making the best and most reliable service possible. This included late hours, sometimes even working overnight to ensure that our processes were running as expected. 

While in my role, I wore multiple hats and as one of my supervisors would mention, was very *"handy"*. That would be in part due to my manager having put me in any and every project that rolled by. This is one of the more valuable aspects of working there and I really hope that I receive the same amount of treatment or am able to find the same level of opportunities elsewhere. 
Some of those instances included: 
- Being able to present my Hackathon Project to the previous CI/EO
- Conducting a product evaluation for Mulesoft and presenting those findings to my former Director and UPS VP
- Being present during company outings with leadership present
- Being involved in the development of the migration Google Cloud
- Working on multiple major integrations spanning across various teams

Unfortunately, around the beginning of 2024 I was let go for having violated the company's Return to Work policy. During the pandemic, I had ended up moving to another location with a third roommate as to try and save money. However, that location ended up being an additional 20 minutes from the office. I additionally didn't have a car during that time and was frequently looking for a used one with for a good value. For about three months, I found in violation of the policy but still managed to work from home, even working an additional hour since I was able to trade out commuting for time online. I was fortunately able to find a car via Craigslist over Christmas 2023 and returned to work for the entirety of January before I was laid off the first day of February. 

Now it's been around 2 years since that time and I still feel mostly negative towards the whole ordeal. One one hand, I'm grateful that something like this was able to happen. I feel that if it wasn't for my termination, I would have never left my previous role. On the other hand, I don't feel like a termination there was justified. Around this time, over [12,000 employees](https://www.npr.org/2024/01/30/1227861660/ups-layoffs-cuts-12000-jobs) were terminated. And even the week of, my team and other adjacent teams met together to focus on restructuring efforts after their teams' members were being terminated. I can only conclude that they were trying to find some reason to terminate people. It was most likely as a means of cutting costs post-pandemic, as a result of mass hiring efforts across IT. They also had no metric as to quantify someone's value to the company, that which was also being worked out with the turn of the new year. So they most likely chose people for arbitrary reasons (the Employee Dispute representative that I spoke with thinks otherwise). I also learned that they ended up terminating everyone under the current consulting group, reducing my team of around 14 employees to just 1.

# What Now?
What now? Well, I'm taking the days in stride, that's what. Since moving back home, I've been applying myself to some things that need fixing around the house. I've also taken up different artistic hobbies such as playing piano, doing crochet and digital painting. I still spend the majority of my day writing code and involving myself in the field of IT. Lately I've taken up writing Go and Rust as a means of exploring low level programming and concurrency. With the advent of AI, I've also been involved in implementing it in some projects, while also making sure relegate it to only tooling. I'm actively applying to different positions in hopes that I can find another job; it feels like time is only slipping away. I'm starting to realize that my skill-set really only pertains to ETL, SQL and Java development. And as much as I branch out in personal projects, I'll never have the merit of working professionally. Alas, I keep moving. 